{63}  -*-  mode: text; fill-column: 50;  -*-
[0:

Tue Jul 13 02:47:36 2021 So I want to demo foggen
SIGH a week from today.  That involves:

 - Inbound weight matrix with edge units

Do we do like spike atoms or internal activation
levels?

It could really be just a single plate, except for
bit budget..

Are we doing symmetric weights, necessarily?

Let's do two plates, so we can stage deltas across
the interface.

Output row/col just tracks changes in its decision
unit, as fast as possible, spreading changes
downstream to the edge of the ew.

Input unit has running sum from above, and adds
its touching output to that, to produce the
running sum to below.

Tempted to put the weights on the output units --
feels like the input units will be shorter on
bits.

Input reads running sum from above, adds
weight*state from touching output, writes new
running sum on itself.

[1:

Tue Jul 13 03:17:43 2021 And it the order of the
input and output units on the plate edges
absolutely WILL matter, because (1) changes in
outputs near the input row will affect input units
more quickly that changes far from the input row,
and (2) inputs near the output column will see
those changes sooner than inputs far from the
output column.

And we LIKE that.  We'll want to use that 'hot
corner', that intersection of Input and Output
where they almost touch, for reflex arcs and stuff
like that.
[2:

Tue Jul 13 03:34:32 2021 And we'll have the
decision units.  We'll have SIGH three-state units
on one side, and probably two state[3:

Tue Jul 13 07:37:21 2021 OK, so I'd like this to
be moderately 'general' at the plate level.  Like:
Have the SIGH decision units separate from weight
matrix plate.

Let's make some layouts!  Let's make layouts!

                              VT: Voter
  Iv O< Iv O< Iv O< Iv O< VT  PQ: Poll Question
  RN RN RN RN RN RN RN RN RN  RT: Reinforcement Term
  Iv O< Iv O< Iv O< Iv O< VT  RS: Reinforcement Sum
  RN RN RN RN RN RN RN RN RN  RC: Reinforcement Comparator
  Iv O< Iv O< Iv O< Iv O< VT  RN: Reinforcement Network
  RN RN RN RN RN RN RN RN RN
  PQ PQ PQ PQ PQ PQ PQ PQ RC RS .
  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .
  Ov I> Ov I> Ov I> Ov I> RT I^ O>
  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
  Ov I> Ov I> Ov I> Ov I> RT I^ O>
  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
  Ov I> Ov I> Ov I> Ov I> RT I^ O>
  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

[4:

Tue Jul 13 08:00:58 2021 Well, that's very
probably too ambitious, as usual, but perhaps not
absurd.

The flow is counter-clockwise.  Starting from
upper right, say:

VT: Voters vote: SUPPORT, OPPOSE, or APATHY.
O<: Output units carry the voter choices left
Iv: Where they are weighted and summed downwards
PQ: Poll questions decided given weighted sums
Ov: Output units carry results downward
I>: Results are weighted and summed to the right
RT: Reinforcement terms: GOOD, BAD, or IRRELEVANT
O>: Output units carry results (one step) right
I^: Results are weighted and summed upwards
RS: The (linear) reinforcement sum unit updates
RC: The reinforcement comparison unit judges
RN: Reinforcment network floods to the weights

[5:

Tue Jul 13 08:18:21 2021 Now, that's not the whole
story, there's also:

PQ: Poll question results need to flow back
    clockwise, against the Iv/O< flow to reach the
    voters

And there's nothing here yet about sequencing.
Right now the voters will have long since moved on
before the RC results get broadcast back to their
weights.

[6:

Tue Jul 13 08:23:48 2021 I think two things:

(1) Symmetric weight matrices will probably need
    to be their own thing

(2) We need to start with something much simpler.

[7:

Tue Jul 13 08:29:29 2021 Let's just do
asymmetric weight matrix plates first, and just
look at that for a little bit.

[8:

Tue Jul 13 08:53:10 2021 So what could that mean?

Well for starters we need sums and weights and not
to pay too many bits for them.

quark Link {
 typedef Int(8) Weight;
 typedef Int(14) Sum;
 typedef Int(2) State; // +1,0,-1, ill

}
[9:

Tue Jul 13 16:35:06 2021 OK working through

    quark LinkT(PD stateDir, PD sumDir)

and

    quark Linker(PD stateDir, PD sumDir) {
      typedef LinkT(stateDir,sumDir) MyLink;
      virtual Bool hasLink(Bool inNotOut) ;
      virtual MyLink & getLink(Bool inNotOut) ;
    }

and getting complex enough to start confusing
myself.  [10:

Tue Jul 13 16:45:35 2021 In particular, I was
thinking that one atom might have both an 'in'
Link and and 'out' Link, so we had to do data
members for Links rather than base classes.  But
that's causing pain in Link processing (of
course), and -- given that Links are currently 22
bits a pop -- it's not clear that having multiple
links in a Plate atom is that realistic an idea
anyway.

Let's bail out and commit to a single Link base
class? [11:

Wed Jul 14 01:28:50 2021 Working on getting Link
v2 building.  Currently we're (trying to be)
propagating 0 for a state if we're on the stateDir
border.. wondering how actual state values are
going to jump in there.  We should probably be
just trusting our state if we're at the beginning?
So outside forces can set it and have it run?[12:

Wed Jul 14 01:32:04 2021 (Setting it to 1 to
hopefully see some non-0 sums propagating.)

:12]

:11]

:10]

:9]
:8]
:7]

:6]

:5]

:4]


:3]

:2]
:1]

:0]
[13:

Wed Jul 14 04:23:56 2021 OK, so we seem to have
state*weight summing happening, although the
directions seem weird.  With the template:

    quark LinkT(PD stateDir, PD sumDir) : Link ..

and then

 typedef LinkT(PlateUtils.cPLATE_GOES_W,
               PlateUtils.cPLATE_GOES_S) WMLink;

gets us:
 - State flows from the west to the east
 - Sums flow from the south to the north

Let's turn it around.[14:

Wed Jul 14 04:54:13 2021 Well I guess it's easier
just to get used to the orientation.

Now we've states flowing west and sums flowing
down on {2,2}.  I think it's time to get a
decision unit vector/plate going.

:14]


:13]
[15:

Thu Jul 15 03:11:32 2021 OK, it seems we now have
two interleaved weight matrices, one inbound to
the voters at the bottom, and the other inbound to
the poll questions on the left.  The former
propagates states to the right and sums down, the
latter propagates states up and sums to the left.

:15]
[16:

Thu Jul 15 11:40:29 2021 Getting to be time to
move the flag again.  Buuut..

:16]
[17:

Thu Jul 15 11:40:39 2021 So we're trying to do a
'ReinforcementMatrix' that's supposed to flood
reinforcement signals over the weight matrices,
which then update weights based on their local
circumstances.

Do we need/want a UMod to tell when upstream is
fresh?  If we do have a UMod do we even need an
upstream direction, rather than just believing
UMod?

Also: Are we going to have a 'reinforce now' edge
event, that automatically clears once each site
applies it?
[18:

Thu Jul 15 12:48:04 2021 So the 'overall' picture
such as we're imagining it, for now, is we'll have
a single SIGHOperator atom somewhere down around
plate(minx,maxy), where (at the moment) we are
seeding two interleaved weight matrices plus two
node vectors.[19:

Thu Jul 15 13:07:42 2021 So we think the
reinforcment matrix would init at maybe ew[4]
relative to the seed.. and where would the
SIGHOperator go?  ew[6] I guess.  That would make
our initial layout be something like:

                   PQ: Poll question vector
     PQ W<         VV: Voter vector
     S1 Wv RM      W<: Weight matrix summing toward PQ
     SO VV S2      Wv: Weight matrix summing toward VV
                   S1: StateGate routing PQ out to Wv
                   S2: StateGate routing VV out to W<
                   RM: Reinforcement matrix
                   SO: SIGHOperator

[20:

Thu Jul 15 13:34:33 2021 So, the SO would be doing
the following, at least in the 'fully sequenced'
case:

 - Alternately opening the S1 and S2 state gates
   to perform the vote/react cycle

 - 'Somehow' coming up with a function value and
   reinforcement signal (probably want an
   additional element left of the SO to manage
   that stuff.)

 - Injecting the reinforcement into the RM to
   update the weights.

Hmm how does SO know when it's okay to carry on?
There's no interlock back from RM.

We could do full tick-tock updates to the RM if we
wanted?

[21:

Thu Jul 15 13:45:02 2021 (I really really want to
do the unclocked version, where we try to make it
a feature that the stuff closer to the VV/PQ
corner votes/reacts/learns faster than the more
remote stuff.  I really really want to do that.
But I know it's going to look like utter chaos
when we first deal with it, and I also want
something with a prayer of working.)

:21]

:20]

:19]

:18]

:17]
[22:

Sat Jul 17 16:08:07 2021 OK so what could we do
for the StageGate command processing?  Basically
just 'everybody sample state now', and otherwise
just leave the out WM state injection unchanged.

And the 'everybody' makes it a sync point in some
fashion.

So we're saying that you propagate gatestate and
incremented command count, but you don't 'execute'
the gatestate until all your downstream is on the
same command count.  Which means we have to know
downstream.

So what if it's just a Bool mPass or something,
with the rule:

 - if (upstream.mPass) self.mPass = true;
 - if (self.mPass && allDownstreamMpass()) {
     executeMpass
     self.mPass = false;
   }

Not good enough, need tristate of course.
Ready/armed/fired

 root READY -> root.ARMED
 self.READY && up.ARMED -> self.ARMED
 self.ARMED && all down FIRED -> fire && self.FIRED
 self.FIRED && all up FIRED -> self.READY
 root.FIRED -> root.READY

..except we want to fire locally first not last

external: ( root READY -> fire && root.FIRED )
 self.READY && all up FIRED -> fire && self.FIRED
 self.FIRED && all down RELOAD -> self.RELOAD
 self.RELOAD && all up RELOAD -> self.READY[25:

Sun Jul 18 12:30:10 2021 Currently it's more like:

external: ( root.READY -> root.FIRING )
 self.FIRING -> fire && self.FIRED
 self.READY && upcount > 0 && all up FIRED -> self.FIRING
 self.FIRED && all down RECOVERED -> self.RECOVERED
 self.RECOVERED && all down READY -> self.READY

:25]
[23:

Sun Jul 18 08:31:33 2021 OK we're close to having
that distribution state machine implemented.  Now
what exactly happens when we call fire()?

..aand when do we propagate mGateState, here?  Do
we just copy it from any and every upstream source
we see, willy-nilly?[24:

Sun Jul 18 08:38:04 2021 Actually, are we
revisiting mGateState as well?  Do we need
GateState cGATE_ARMED as well as CommandState
cSTATE_FIRED ?

Or maybe cGATE_ARMED should become cGATE_SYNC or
something -- and NOT locally change after firing
-- meaning pass state when you see your upstream
has done so.

:24]

:23]
:22]
[26:

Mon Jul 19 02:15:01 2021 OK so we saved an example
of interleaved asymmetric weight matrices updating
each other, in SIMDATA_ARCHIVE/20210718145724

Let's take a crack at a cheap-ass evaluator, based
on Node vector and StateGate technology.  Let's
just hardcode a bitvector..

..or should we do a slightly less bogus evaluation
matrix with preset weights?

It seems that either way we're going to need the
reinforcement matrix so maybe we should do that
first.

:26]
[27:

Mon Jul 19 18:44:07 2021 OK well, weight update is
looking vaguely plausible, considering that the
reinforcement is currently random.

We're really low on time, and we've got to commit
to some kind of scheme for eval and reinforcement
comparison. [28:

Mon Jul 19 19:44:39 2021 Let's make another
stategate that merges the bits into a bit vector
at the root?

:28]

:27]
[29:

Tue Jul 20 00:20:08 2021 OK where do we put this
Evaluator thing?

                   PQ: Poll question vector
  Ev PQ W<         VV: Voter vector
     S1 Wv RM      W<: Weight matrix summing toward PQ
  FU SO VV S2      Wv: Weight matrix summing toward VV / SeedWeightMatrix
                   S1: StateGate routing PQ out to Wv
                   S2: StateGate routing VV out to W<
                   RM: Reinforcement matrix
                   SO: SIGHOperator
                   Ev: Evaluator
                   FU: Function Under Test

so ew[13]?

:29]
[30:

Sat Jul 24 04:01:44 2021 OK so lost kind of three
days with the SFI workshop.

First thing I want here is to see about modifying
the rules for cSAME_PLATE_AS so that a containing
Plate's stride can be different from the
contained, so long as every site in the contained
plate is present in the containing plate.  Goal is
to use tectons to move a SIGH machine.

Actually that's the second thing I want.  First
thing I want is to do absolutely minimal cleanup
here and commit all this.[31:

Sat Jul 24 04:47:32 2021 OK, committed as "WIP
t2sup#3103"

Now let's see about cSAME_PLATE
[32:

Sat Jul 24 09:54:47 2021 OK, have a first stab at
interphasePlateRelations(pl,ewl,pr,ewr), and need
some set up to call it.  Where's our seed layout?

 ..                  PQ: Poll question vector
 .. Ev PQ W<         VV: Voter vector
 ..    S1 Wv RM      W<: Weight matrix summing toward PQ
 .. FU SO VV S2      Wv: Weight matrix summing toward VV / SeedWeightMatrix
 .. .. .. CP ..      S1: StateGate routing PQ out to Wv
                     S2: StateGate routing VV out to W<
                     RM: Reinforcement matrix
                     SO: SIGHOperator
                     Ev: Evaluator
                     FU: Function Under Test
                     CP: Containing Plate

So on a theory like that we want CP to be like

[]
()
{1,1}

And what's the fricken dimensions of that plate??

[ (nvoters+2)*2 , (npqs+2)*2 ]

maybe?  With the +2s for the nodes on the
left/bottom and clearance on right/top?

And CP's position in that would be what:

( 3, (npqs+2)*2-1 )

maybe?
[33:

Sat Jul 24 10:51:00 2021 Let's add an extra column
left for a traditional PlateOperator on the outer
plate.

:33]
:32]
:31]

:30]
[34:

Sun Jul 25 05:11:05 2021 Adding yet another atom
to the seed? --

 ..                  PQ: Poll question vector
 .. Ev PQ W<         VV: Voter vector
 .. MS S1 Wv RM      W<: Weight matrix summing toward PQ
 .. FU SO VV S2      Wv: Weight matrix summing toward VV / SeedWeightMatrix
 .. .. .. CP ..      S1: StateGate routing PQ out to Wv
                     S2: StateGate routing VV out to W<
                     RM: Reinforcement matrix
                     SO: SIGHOperator
                     Ev: Evaluator
                     FU: Function Under Test
                     CP: Containing Plate
                     MS: Migratory seed (for a PlateOperator)

:34]
[35:

Sun Jul 25 10:48:22 2021 OK so last night we got
as far as the MigratorySeed migrating to p(1,1)
and deploying a PO, which ran a border patrol and
released a move Tc, which started the swapping and
then a StateGate pulled the ripcord apparently
because of a PRREL2 overlap, apparently because it
didn't passivate even though it's right next to
the Tc.

So why was our darling SG awake at that hour?
[36:

Sun Jul 25 10:54:24 2021 It goes to
Plate.mustBlockOrDie() pretty much at the top of
behave().[37:

Sun Jul 25 10:55:40 2021 We're thinking this is
going to have to be (mixed-)stride-related.
[38:

Sun Jul 25 11:39:53 2021 (I note that
PlateOperator opens thusly:

      Void behave() {
        EventWindow ew;
        if (mustBlockOrDie()) return;
        if (iSeeTecton()) return;

suggesting mustBlockOrDie ain't dealing with Tc.)

:38]
:37]


:36]
:35]
[39:

Sun Jul 25 14:17:14 2021 OK I'm confusing myself
here in PlateUtils.interphasePlateRelations.  I'm
saying if the intersection of the plate bounding
boxes (now in ew units to factor out stride) is
equal to the inner bounding box, then the
relationship is outer CONTAINS inner (whichever
way that goes.)

But don't we need stuff about the strides too?
The idea was a containing plate needed to contain
ALL the plate sites of a contained plate -- but an
outer {2,2} plate won't do that for an inner {1,1}
plate. [40:

Sun Jul 25 14:22:00 2021 Well, we've got this:

    if (lstr == minstr)  leftOuter = true;
    else if (rstr == minstr) leftOuter = false;
    else return cINTERPHASE_PLATE;

which ensures that whatever's called 'outer' has
the minimum stride of both l and r.  And we didn't
even get to computing the bounding boxes if that's
not true.[41:

Sun Jul 25 14:25:04 2021 OK I think I 'just' had
the comparison between tbx and tbi backwards.  If
the intersection IS equal to the inner box, then
we have containment.

:41]

:40]

:39]
[42:

Mon Jul 26 02:45:58 2021 OK so we need to start
preparing the invited talk for the BDA workshop.

:42]
[43:

Mon Jul 26 11:18:10 2021 Left a DReg+mobile-SIGH
running during morning sleep and it blew up with a
PRREL2 after about 16KAEPS

    20210726081316-46237: 16393AEPS [242A8967]MSG: print: Unsigned: 2
    20210726081439-46238: 16647AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(53,50) of [0,0]: (RM) (ReinforcementMatrix(mRootPos=(B2DT<4u>(mX=0,mY=14),mLink1SN=1,mLink2SN=5,mReinforcement=-1,)Flood(mCommandState=2,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=5,mY=10),mDeathBits=0x0)
    20210726081439-46239: 16647AEPS [242A8967]MSG: print: "PRREL2 OVRLPS"
    20210726081439-46240: 16647AEPS [242A8967]MSG: print: (12,11)
    20210726081439-46241: 16647AEPS [242A8967]MSG: print: (5,10)
    20210726081439-46242: 16647AEPS [242A8967]MSG: print: (0,0)
    20210726081439-46243: 16647AEPS [242A8967]MSG: print: (12,11)
    20210726081439-46244: 16647AEPS [242A8967]MSG: print: (5,10)
    20210726081439-46245: 16647AEPS [242A8967]MSG: print: (-2,0)
    20210726081439-46246: 16647AEPS [242A8967]MSG: print: "KILL OVERLAPPING PLATE"

which triggered a run of other prrel2s (all with
mDeathBis=0x3 already set) at nearby sites, and
I'm wondering if there's a pattern at all -- like
following along a Tecton line.  Could we map the
prrel2s?

    20210726081439-46247: 16647AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(51,50) of [0,0]: (WM) (WeightMatrix(mSumDir=1,mStateDir=0,)StdLink(mWeight=-19,mSum=-241,mState=1,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=5,mY=10),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081439-46279: 16647AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(50,52) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=25),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46311: 16647AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(51,44) of [0,0]: (RM) (ReinforcementMatrix(mRootPos=(B2DT<4u>(mX=0,mY=14),mLink1SN=1,mLink2SN=5,mReinforcement=-1,)Flood(mCommandState=2,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=4,mY=7),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46335: 16647AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(53,42) of [0,0]: (RM) (ReinforcementMatrix(mRootPos=(B2DT<4u>(mX=0,mY=14),mLink1SN=1,mLink2SN=5,mReinforcement=-1,)Flood(mCommandState=2,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=5,mY=6),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46359: 16647AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(49,48) of [0,0]: (WM) (WeightMatrix(mSumDir=1,mStateDir=0,)StdLink(mWeight=5,mSum=-188,mState=-1,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=4,mY=9),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46375: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(50,49) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=13,mY=22),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46399: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(49,51) of [0,0]: (VV) (PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=1),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=4,mY=0),mDeathBits=0x3,)NodeImpl(mSumInSN=2,mStateOutSN=63,mState=-1,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46415: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(51,51) of [0,0]: (SG) (StateGate(mFromSN=1,mToSN=15,mMaxRoot=false,mGateState=1,mCommandState=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=1),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=4,mY=0),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46423: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(51,43) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=13,mY=16),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46439: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(51,47) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=13,mY=20),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46447: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(51,40) of [0,0]: (WM) (WeightMatrix(mSumDir=1,mStateDir=0,)StdLink(mWeight=-2,mSum=-128,mState=1,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=5,mY=5),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46455: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(53,41) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=15,mY=14),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46471: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(55,39) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=17,mY=12),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46479: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(47,46) of [0,0]: (WM) (WeightMatrix(mSumDir=1,mStateDir=0,)StdLink(mWeight=11,mSum=0,mState=-1,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=3,mY=8),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46487: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(47,52) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=10,mY=25),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46495: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(51,38) of [0,0]: (WM) (WeightMatrix(mSumDir=1,mStateDir=0,)StdLink(mWeight=34,mSum=-126,mState=-1,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=5,mY=4),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46503: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(51,45) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=13,mY=18),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46511: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(52,52) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=14,mY=25),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46519: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(61,29) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=23,mY=2),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46535: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(55,38) of [0,0]: (RM) (ReinforcementMatrix(mRootPos=(B2DT<4u>(mX=0,mY=14),mLink1SN=1,mLink2SN=5,mReinforcement=-1,)Flood(mCommandState=2,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=6,mY=4),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46559: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(59,32) of [0,0]: (RM) (ReinforcementMatrix(mRootPos=(B2DT<4u>(mX=0,mY=14),mLink1SN=1,mLink2SN=5,mReinforcement=-1,)Flood(mCommandState=2,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=8,mY=1),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46583: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(53,36) of [0,0]: (WM) (WeightMatrix(mSumDir=1,mStateDir=0,)StdLink(mWeight=-38,mSum=-125,mState=1,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=6,mY=3),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46591: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(62,27) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=24,mY=0),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46599: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(57,27) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=20,mY=0),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46623: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(57,32) of [0,0]: (WM) (WeightMatrix(mSumDir=1,mStateDir=0,)StdLink(mWeight=39,mSum=72,mState=1,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=8,mY=1),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46655: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(55,34) of [0,0]: (WM) (WeightMatrix(mSumDir=1,mStateDir=0,)StdLink(mWeight=24,mSum=-70,mState=-1,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=7,mY=2),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46679: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(53,50) of [0,0]: (RM) (ReinforcementMatrix(mRootPos=(B2DT<4u>(mX=0,mY=14),mLink1SN=1,mLink2SN=5,mReinforcement=-1,)Flood(mCommandState=2,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=5,mY=10),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46687: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(58,28) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=21,mY=1),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46735: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(61,27) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=23,mY=0),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46743: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(57,30) of [0,0]: (WM) (WeightMatrix(mSumDir=1,mStateDir=0,)StdLink(mWeight=32,mSum=32,mState=1,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=8,mY=0),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46759: 16648AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(48,52) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=11,mY=25),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46767: 16649AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(56,33) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=19,mY=6),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46783: 16649AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(57,28) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=20,mY=1),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46807: 16649AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(57,35) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=19,mY=8),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46815: 16649AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(58,29) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=21,mY=2),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46847: 16649AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(58,27) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=21,mY=0),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46871: 16649AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(55,32) of [0,0]: (WM) (WeightMatrix(mSumDir=1,mStateDir=0,)StdLink(mWeight=-24,mSum=-46,mState=1,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=7,mY=1),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46879: 16649AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(55,37) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=17,mY=10),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46895: 16649AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(57,34) of [0,0]: (RM) (ReinforcementMatrix(mRootPos=(B2DT<4u>(mX=0,mY=14),mLink1SN=1,mLink2SN=5,mReinforcement=-1,)Flood(mCommandState=2,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=7,mY=2),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46903: 16649AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(55,40) of [0,0]: (RM) (ReinforcementMatrix(mRootPos=(B2DT<4u>(mX=0,mY=14),mLink1SN=1,mLink2SN=5,mReinforcement=-1,)Flood(mCommandState=2,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=6,mY=5),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46911: 16649AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(56,31) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=19,mY=4),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)
    20210726081440-46919: 16649AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(57,38) of [0,0]: (RM) (ReinforcementMatrix(mRootPos=(B2DT<4u>(mX=0,mY=14),mLink1SN=1,mLink2SN=5,mReinforcement=-1,)Flood(mCommandState=2,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=12,mY=11),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=7,mY=4),mDeathBits=0x3)
    20210726081440-46927: 16649AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(56,27) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=19,mY=0),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0    20210726081440-46935: 16649AEPS [242A8967]MSG: @(56,28) of [0,0]: (CP) (ColorPlate(mBlockDogTimer=(XTimer<4u 15u 4096u>(time=0),mColor=[0]=8,[1]=8,[2]=0,)PayloadT<16u>(mBits=0x0,mHasPayload=false,)Stride2x2(mStride=[0]=0,[1]=0,)B2DTPlate<7u>(mSizeOfPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=29,mY=26),mPosOnPlate=(B2DT<7u>(mX=19,mY=1),mDeathBits=0x3,)QStream12(mBufferStatus=0)

[44:

Mon Jul 26 11:36:47 2021 Something like:


    444444444455555555556666666666
    012345678901234567890123456789

 25
 26
 27                 sZl  eY
 28                  id
 29                   k  U
 30                  f
 31                 q
 32                m a W
 33                 h
 34                b o
 35                  j
 36              X
 37                n
 38            R   V r
 39                O
 40            M   p
 41              N
 42              F
 43            K
 44            E
 45            S
 46        P
 47            L
 48          G
 49           H
 50            B A/c
 51          I J
 52        Qg C T
 53
 54

[45:

Mon Jul 26 12:09:29 2021 Which is a reasonably
tectonic shape, I'd say..

So right now I'm wondering about the whole logic
in Plate.mustBlockOrDie().  It does a single
center-out pass over the event window looking at
ngb Plate instances and computing their
relationship with self.[46:

Mon Jul 26 12:35:46 2021 And I was wondering
whether that's just not trustworthy enough, in the
land DReg, but now I'm thinking: Yeah it's not
trustworthy in the land of DReg, and we should just
live with that for now, because 'fully'
trustworthy in the land of DReg is too much to ask
for.  In particular, we have no mechanism for Tc
repair after swapping starts.

[47:

Mon Jul 26 12:41:26 2021 So are we moving on
instead?  We're supposed to be switching to talk
prep but we want more behavior here.  How about
some possibilities:

 - MORE COMPLEX FUT: E.g., Plateaus

 - DISTRIBUTED FUT: Random sat?

:47]

:46]

:45]

:44]

:43]
[48:

Mon Jul 26 12:48:21 2021 Let's make a distributed
evaluator.  That would be a distinct step over the
last update.

I'd also like a way to report results, though.
Should we take a (biggish) side trip into a
character display plate?

Is there ANY chance we could find the font coding
we did for the UCSD Design Lab talk?[49:

Mon Jul 26 13:31:26 2021 Ooh, took a long time
(and had to tailscale back to nubiga) but
/data/ackley/papers/MF/asrepo/RT13/code/elements/fonts-20161128/
looks very encouraging!
[51:

Tue Jul 27 04:32:33 2021 OK the original font demo
is running again, and we're making ASCIIPlate
designed to hold a single fixed-width char -- and
we need to settle on some communications system to
flood the plate when a new byte to display is
presented.  Method + UMod spinner, take updates
from anywhere?  Root flood with tick-tock?[52:

Wed Jul 28 03:34:36 2021 Did root flood with
Flood.ulam, went in pretty nicely.  Screwing with
fonts was a pain as usual but we've settled on a
few sizes and weights of Terminus and it looks
pretty good.[53:

Wed Jul 28 04:34:11 2021 Also did minor hacks in
MFM (on the develop branch) to catch failures
during painting (as we already do on the mfmt2
branch), and in ULAM/tcc to avoid a fail during
fail when we don't have an event window.

Should probably just push that stuff before I
forget.  We think there's D<->E develop branch
repo merge coming up soon.[54:

Wed Jul 28 05:12:16 2021 OK, merged D/E MFM/ULAM

:54]

:53]

:52]

:51]
:49]

:48]
[50:

Mon Jul 26 13:42:23 2021 POSSIBLE OLD VIDS FOR
HISTORY MONTAGE:

/data/ackley/papers/MF/asrepo/RT13/code/elements/20150517-locoord/20150601174548.mp4

 - Xinyu Boxes dancing on the heatmap

/data/ackley/papers/MF/asrepo/RT13/code/elements/20150722-ecal/20150722032126.mp4

 - Unconfined random directional mob tears itself up.

/data/ackley/papers/MF/asrepo/RT13/code/elements/cell1.0-20160619/notes/20160610234047.mp4

 - Loose red mobs condensing into slow space -
   edge/corners

/data/ackley/papers/MF/asrepo/RT13/code/elements/cell1.0-20160619/notes/20160620120304.mp4

 - CPlate surrounding random shapes and then
   moving them with swaplines

/data/ackley/papers/MF/asrepo/RT13/code/elements/cell1.0-20160619/notes/20160621163215.mp4

 - CPlate starting to repro large object, with
   many bugs

/data/ackley/papers/MF/asrepo/RT13/code/elements/cell1.5-20160808/outputs/20160808121937.mp4

 - Early cell membrane messing up and everting

:50]
[55:

Wed Jul 28 05:13:38 2021 So how do we whip up a
distributed function to evaluate?  What does the
double plus extended super egg look like?

 ..                  PQ: Poll question vector
 .. Ev PQ W<         VV: Voter vector
 PS MS S1 Wv RM      W<: Weight matrix summing toward PQ
 .. .. SO VV S2      Wv: Weight matrix summing toward VV / SeedWeightMatrix
 .. .. .. CP ..      S1: StateGate routing PQ out to Wv
                     S2: StateGate routing VV out to W<
                     RM: Reinforcement matrix
                     SO: SIGHOperator
                     Ev: Evaluator
                     PS: Problem Seed
                     CP: Containing Plate
                     MS: Migratory seed (for a PlateOperator)

and PS does like what

   .. .. ..
   .. .. .. Ev PQ W<
   .. .. PS MS S1 Wv RM
   .. .. .. .. SO VV S2
   .. .. .. .. .. CP ..

[56:

Wed Jul 28 05:39:22 2021 Are we saying there's a
whole separate state machine in like a
ProblemOperator?  Or SIGHOperator runs it all?

Separate state machine.

 SIGHSeed
   .. .. ..
   .. .. .. .. PQ W<
   .. .. .. .. S1 Wv RM
   .. .. .. FS SO VV S2
   .. .. .. .. .. CP ..

heading for like

   .. .. .. S3             Pv: Weight matrix summing toward FT
   .. .. Pv Pv PQ W<       S3: StateGate routing PQ out to Pv
   .. .. .. S3 S1 Wv RM    FT: Function Term vector
   .. .. FT FT SO VV S2
   .. CP CP CP CP CP ..

 FunctionSeed

   .. .. .. ..
   .. TM TM TM PQ W<
   .. TM TM MS S1 Wv RM   FS: FunctionSeed/FunctionOperator
   .. TU TU FS SO VV S2   TV:
   .. .. .. .. .. CP ..


:56]

:55]
[57:

Thu Jul 29 11:18:22 2021 

   .. .. .. S3             Pv: Weight matrix summing toward FT
   .. .. Pv Pv PQ W<       S3: StateGate routing PQ out to Pv
   .. .. MS S3 S1 Wv RM    FT: Function Term vector
   .. .. FT FT SO VV S2
   .. NP NP NP NP NP CP

  :57]
[58:

Thu Jul 29 16:13:38 2021 OK come on running out of
time if we're going for this.  We have the minimal
pieces in places but we need SIGHOperator2 to
sequence them.

Can we do it all backwards somehow?  I feel like I
have all these races between state flowing towards
next steps.

Backwards:
 - Consequence:
   if mEnter
      Sum up active FT scores
   else


---
    Trigger PQ (reads VV), wait for ready
    Trigger PQ->VV and PQ->FT, wait for both ready
    Trigger FT (judge) and VV (react), wait for both ready
    Pass FT result to Evaluator, get reinforcement
    Trigger RM, wait for ready
    Loop

So that still has a race in triggering FT..
Do we even need a gate at PQ->FT?  That can't just
be flow-through / combinational?  
    
    Trigger PQ (reads VV), wait for ready
    Trigger PQ->VV, wait for both ready
    Trigger FT (judge) and VV (react), wait for both ready
    Pass FT result to Evaluator, get reinforcement
    Trigger RM, wait for ready
    Loop


 1. React to election
    if mENTER
     - Trigger PQ->VV stategate
     - ALSO trigger PQ->FT stategate
     - mEnter = false
    else if both stategates are ready
    

:58]
[59:

Thu Jul 29 18:30:15 2021

Trigger FT (reads PQ

:59]

[60:

Sat Jul 31 15:44:25 2021 OK so we're past the BDA
Workshop and the less said about my outing the
better. 

:60]
[61:

Sat Jul 31 15:45:00 2021 So today we made
sigmoid.pl -> Sigmoid.ulam and it's time to redo
the phony decision rule I made up two weeks ago
for something more approximating the actual SIGH
rules.
[62:

Sun Aug  1 15:39:09 2021 Well, so it looks like
sigmoid.pl is vaguely plausible -- and the apathy
implementation in SIGH.ulam is a whole lot more
plausible too.

AND THE DESCRIPTION PLUS TWO EQUATIONS IN STEP 3
OF FIGURE 3-7 OF A CONNECTIONIST MACHINE FOR
GENETIC HILLCLIMBING ARE FLAT OUT WRONG!?!

:62]
:61]
